[FISH-387] Community Documentation for Client Certificate Checks (#175)
payara/Payara-Community-Documentation: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/server-configuration/security/certificate-realm-certificate-validation.adoc

[[client-certificate-validator]]
= Client Certificate Custom Validations

> _Since Payara Server 5.2021.5_

Reviewer: No longer included in pages

By default, Payara checks only if the submitted Client Certificate is present in the trust store. If it is found, it is accepted without any additional checks.

> Since Payara 5.2021.5, you can now implement a Client Certificate Validator which performs additional checks in addition to the presence of the certificate in the trust store.  You can perform a check on the validity date, use the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) to validate the certificate when it has a Certificate Revocation List entry (CRL), or lookup the DN name in a database for example, and determine based on this information if the certificate is still accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom Client Certificate Validation allows you to perform extra checks in addition to checking for the presence of the certificate in the trust store.
You can perform a check on the validity date, and use the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) to validate the certificate when it has a Certificate Revocation List entry (CRL), or lookup the DN name in a database for example, and determine based on this information if the certificate is still accepted.
```

Reviewer: There is no need to include the specific version which the version has been introduced in; it has been decided users can have a look through release notes if they're interested

> When you want to implement custom validation, implement the `fish.payara.security.client.ClientCertificateValidator` interface and define your class through the ServiceLoader mechanism.

Reviewer: Might be better to move under the 'Creating Custom Validation' heading

> == Creating Custom Validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating Custom Validation
```

> To have the `ClientCertificateValidator` interface available in your application, add the `payara-api` artifact to your application with the provided scope.

Reviewer: Might want to mention that this is using maven and referencing the pom.xml

        </dependency>
----

Now that you have the interface available, you can implement it in your application.

[source, java]
----
public class MyCertificateValidator implements ClientCertificateValidator {

    @Override
    public boolean isValid(Subject subject, X500Principal principal, X509Certificate certificate) {
         //
         return ...
    }
----

The most important parameter here is the `principal` parameter which contains the user information contained in the Client Certificate presented in the request.  The Certificate itself is in the last parameter and in the case you like to have access already to the `Subject` for this validation, it is passed in as the first parameter.

When you return `true` as the method result, the processing of the request continues. In the case false is returned, a `LoginException` is thrown resulting in a status 401 for the request.

This class is loaded through the Java ServiceLoader mechanism. Make sure you have the following file. _META-INF/services/fish.payara.security.client.ClientCertificateValidator_ containing the fully qualified name of your implementation.

----
com.company.certificate.MyCertificateValidator
----

> NOTE: You can @Inject CDI and EJB beans in your validator implementation, however since the validator itself is not a Jakarta EE bean, `@PostConstruct` and `@PreDestroy`-annotated methods will not be called on the validator instance.

Reviewer: This could be useful information, I'd move it up near line 28 or line 14.
